>> Maximiliano Firtman: Now it's time
to talk a little bit about array and
collections.
So here we will start doing
a recap of ES6, okay,
where we are in terms of collections, and
working with collections,
iterators, for of, generators.
Some methods, new methods for
array, change array by copy.
We will see what is that.
Set and maps that has been since ES6.
Also, we will talk about weak set and
weak maps, and what are the differences,
typed arrays, and some small things
that we will see directly in the code.
Let's move to the recap of new
collections available in ES6.
You know that typically in JavaScript,
we only have the array, okay?
We have the array constructor and
then we have objects.
That's all we have, okay?
Of course,
we can also use the JSON syntax, so
these brackets, square brackets,
but it's just the array.
From ES6, we have sets and we have maps.
Set, at beginning,
it seems similar to arrays.
But let's try to analyze the difference.
First, this is going to show me
the size of the set, not the length.
It's called the size.
So, what the size of this set should be?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: What do you think?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: If we count here.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Anyone?
If I execute, if I run this,
should it give me how, six elements?
I'm seeing some.
>> Speaker 2: Won't it silently
delete the second number two?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
let's go with that.
Yeah, something like that is happening.
It's five, it's not six.
Why?
Because it's a set.
Okay, a set.
I'm not sure if you remember the idea
of sets in math in college, but
one of the characteristics of a set
is that there is no duplicates.
And that's what you were
mentioning about the two.
It's not silently deleting it,
it's not taking it.
You want me to save a 2 here,
now it's already there, so I have the 2.
So he's not even putting the 2 in the set.
So the set is a bag of objects
that they can contain anything,
but no duplicates, okay?
Make sense?
So that's why it's 5 because
It doesn't contain these two.
By the way, you can add to
the set any value, objects and
also standard values, Booleans,
numbers, they go to the bag.
A map, it's actually a key value
collection where the key can be any
object, and that's the difference
with the object literal.
So I can create a map, and
within the map, set values by key,
and the key can be whatever.
It can be another object
with a key inside.
It can be an array,
anything can be a key, okay?
Make sense?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Now,
weak versions.
We have versions, we have for set and
map, we have weak version of both.
Weak set, weak map.
Here we are getting into a memory
management moment that if
your developer experience
is only around JavaScript,
you have probably never
encountered before.
If you're coming from Z, C,
Swift, or many other languages,
maybe you have already seen this, okay?
So we don't have enough time today to
go over all the whole details about
pointer management and so on.
But typically when you have objects and
variables pointing to those objects,
so let's say, let's look at this.
If I have here an object,
okay, I create an object.
The object has some
property doesn't matter.
How many pointers do I have to the object?
First, the object is this one.
Actually, this is a literal
representation of the object, okay?
This thing is going to create an object
in memory, okay, it's just that.
And then I'm saving a reference
to that object in a variable.
If I create another variable,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: And
assign it with the same value.
Now, how many objects do I have?
One.
How many references?
Two.
I have two variables pointing to the same
object because I didn't clone the object.
I'm just having another reference.
Then I can have an array of objects.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: And
now how many objects do I have?
Well, the array is another object,
but don't count the array.
It's still one.
How many reference?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: How
many references?
Four.
There are four references
pointing to the same object.
We have object variable of two and then
we have array sub zero and array sub one.
All of them pointing to the same object,
okay?
Well, all these references
are known as strong references.
So why they are strong?
What happens if I say
objects equals to null?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: What happens now
>> Maximiliano Firtman: About our
countings here?
How many objects do I have here,
one or zero?
Am I deleting the object or not?
>> Speaker 3: I believe it's zero.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Zero,
do you all agree?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Interesting.
Actually, I'm saying equals to null,
which seems like,
yeah, I'm deleting the object,
but that's not the case.
I'm saying that now the object
variable is pointing to no object.
Okay, so the object is still there.
And now I have one reference less
than before, I have three references.
If I now say object two equals to null,
then I have two references.
Now, if I say array sub
zero equals null and
array sub one equals null,
now I have zero references to that object.
So that object, maybe it's still in
memory, but its marked us, you know what,
no one is pointing at you anymore.
So you're a candidate for
releasing the memory.
And there is a process known as a garbage
collector in JavaScript as well.
We don't typically work with it,
it's there.
That it's going through the memory,
looking for those objects that don't
have any strong reference and they going
to delete the object at that moment, okay?
So you said zero objects because
you are thinking on this,
which is not totally incorrect.
So when you have this thing, Initially,
you have one object and one reference.
When you assign null,
then you're removing the reference, and
because of that,
you are probably removing the object soon.
But if you have other references to that,
you have more strong references.
Okay, make sense?
That's the idea of a strong reference.
Now we will get into a weak reference,
a weak set.
So now let's create a new weak set.
Let me go back here to that object.
So now I'm going to create a new weak set,
let's say WeakSet equals to,
and I'm going to add that object, okay?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: In fact,
let's do this.
Let's create a set and
a weak set both here.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
I have S and WS.
So right now,
we have one object that was created here.
Remember, this is where we
create the object, not here.
This is a reference, not the object.
The object is here, and
then we have two references, but
right now, we have two strong references.
Again, if I delete the object with, well,
i thought I was deleting the object.
If I assign null to the object,
okay, actually,
I have three strong references and
now I have two strong references.
Why three before?
Without this we have three object.
Then the set has a reference inside and
the WeakSet or WS has another inside.
But now WeakSet,
if I use the WeakSet constructor and
not the Set constructor,
will not add a strong reference.
It's only two.
If I remove the set and
I just stay with the WeakSet,
the WeakSet is not adding
a strong reference.
It has a reference, but
it's known as a weak reference.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So it's weak.
That means that if I delete the object,
so it's like saying this,
okay, give me a reference to the object,
but you know what,
I'm not going to get
responsible of that object.
So if whoever is creating that object,
deletes that object, I don't care.
I'm not going to stay with it, okay?
I'm not responsible of that object.
So now if I say object equals null,
I have zero strong references.
And because I don't have more references,
I don't have the object.
I still have a weak reference.
What happens if you try to access
that object at that point?
It's not gonna be there because
it was already garbage collected.
You don't get a runtime exception,
it's just null.
So the weak set will not keep the object
alive if the rest of the program,
the rest of your software,
is not using the object anymore, okay?
That makes sense?
And also,
there is a weak map with the same idea.
So we have a set and
a map that can be strong or weak.
And one important thing here is
that weak set only accepts objects.
So they cannot accept numbers or
Booleans, because they're not objects.
They don't have strong references.